Born into a prestigious royal elven family from the city of Elandor, Azael Nix grew up surrounded by privilege and expectation. His family, known for their devout worship of Dragonlord Corellon, the god of magic and the arts, pushed Azael to the life of a cleric, intending to serve the temple and uphold the status of his family’s name. However, Azael’s soul was marked with an insatiable hunger for forbidden knowledge.

As an acolyte, Azael shown great promise to his mentors and tutors. Endlessly studying- not just out of respect for his deity or responsibilities to his family’s heritage, but because he sought something more – a deeper truth hidden behind the facades of his golden lineage. His mind wandered beyond the sanctioned scriptures and rituals, and he found himself drawn to the study of life and death. What began as a curiosity, quickly became an obsession and addiction as he unearthed ancient tomes and hidden texts within the temple archives. There, he discovered forbidden necromantic art and the means to manipulate life.

One moonless evening, while the temple halls above were quiet and still, Azael descended into the basement of the temple; a place where light barely touched the freezing stone walls. He had procured several wild animals from the temple’s hunters- creatures brought in that day from the surrounding woods. With growing excitement, a sense of untamed exhilaration, and the hidden spells he had gathered, he began to experiment, reanimating and terminating the beasts over and over again. His ambition blinded him to caution, and in his fervor, he whispered an incantation from an ancient forbidden text; the likes of which he had never seen.

In that moment, an otherworldly darkness filled the basement, the air grew thick with an unnatural chill, and Azael felt a pulse of arcane energy coursing through his bones. His thoughts were then interrupted by a chorus of anguishing cries calling out from every room in the temple. What began in him as a jolt of arcane energy evolved into an immense apprehension of suffering, as if the thoughts and feelings of his victims were somehow connected. A deafening silence fell over the temple as all the cries ended in an instant. In that moment, that spell had claimed most of the souls of the kingdom’s populace.

When the gravity of what he had done became apparent, Azael knew that he could not stay. Now, Azael wanders the lands as a scholar on the quest for redemption; to bring back the lives that he had claimed.